docs/todos.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: List of unsupported keywords
---

This is a technical page listing the keywords that are not (yet) supported and ideas for their implementations.

## Partially supported keywords
  * `const`.
    For the generator, the implementation is working as intended.
    For the validator, a `const` inside a `not` can sometimes be considered as valid or invalid wrongly.
    The problem comes from the abstracted values.
    With the abstractions, we want to check whether the *type* is valid.
    This is problematic with `not` as a valid document then gets rejected.

## Unsupported keywords
  * `dependentSchemas`, `if`, `then`, and `else` for any type.
  * `dependentRequired`, `patternProperties`, `propertyNames`, for objects.
  * `prefixItems`, `contains`, `minContains`, and `maxContains` for arrays.
  * `oneOf` inside a `not`. I must think about a clever way to merge the constraints.

## Keywords that will not be supported
  * With the default handlers:
    * any keyword that has an effect on numbers, integers, or strings.
    * `uniqueItems` for arrays.
  * In general:
    * `format` for strings is discarded.
    * `enum` values inside a `not` are not considered when processing the enumeration. This is due to the fact that we abstract enumeration values.

## Other remaining tasks
  * Write API documentation.
  * Configure continuous integration (for my own experience).

Commit message:

Validator: better handling of const and anyOf
anyOf: instead of applying the same procedure than for the generator,
the validator retrieves the information as-is. That is, the validator
works on the direct contraints stored in the schema, rather than the
transformation constructed for the generator. This is to avoid infinite
loops when constraints can not be simplified and an "anyOf" remains at
the top.

const: possibility to decide whether to check the type or the exact
values. This is useful for const constraints inside a not (due to our
abstractions).

docs/todos.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: List of unsupported keywords
---

This is a technical page listing the keywords that are not (yet) supported and ideas for their implementations.

## Partially supported keywords
  * `const`.
    For the generator, the implementation is working as intended.
    For the validator, a `const` inside a `not` can sometimes be considered as valid or invalid wrongly.
    The problem comes from the abstracted values.
    With the abstractions, we want to check whether the *type* is valid.
    This is problematic with `not` as a valid document then gets rejected.

    Update: I implemented the possibility to decide whether we check the type or the exact values. I have to verify that it is enough for all cases.

## Unsupported keywords
  * `dependentSchemas`, `if`, `then`, and `else` for any type.
  * `dependentRequired`, `patternProperties`, `propertyNames`, for objects.
  * `prefixItems`, `contains`, `minContains`, and `maxContains` for arrays.
  * `oneOf` inside a `not`. I must think about a clever way to merge the constraints.

## Keywords that will not be supported
  * With the default handlers:
    * any keyword that has an effect on numbers, integers, or strings.
    * `uniqueItems` for arrays.
  * In general:
    * `format` for strings is discarded.
    * `enum` values inside a `not` are not considered when processing the enumeration. This is due to the fact that we abstract enumeration values.

## Other remaining tasks
  * Write API documentation.
  * Configure continuous integration (for my own experience).
